# com.imba.sendgrid
<h3>SendGrid Event Notification app listener for CiviCRM

SendGrid is a 3rd party bulk email delivery provider that features an Event Notification app (https://sendgrid.com/docs/API_Reference/Webhooks/event.html) which is included with their service. This functionality was chosen to integrate as a CiviCRM extension because it's easy to configure what notifications you want sent, features basic HTTP authentication, requires just a "responder" or "listener" (this extension) to receive the notifications from SendGrid and add them to the CiviCRM database, and could be developed to be relatively agnostic of a specific organization and distributed to the CiviCRM community.

The email events that SendGrid sends notifications of include: _Processed, Dropped, Deferred, Delivered, Bounced, Opened, Clicked, Unsubscribed From, Marked as Spam, ASM Group Unsubscribe, ASM Group Resubscribe._ While it is safe to select all actions to be reported by the SendGrid Event Notification app, for better performance _Processed, ASM Group Unsubscribe_, and _ASM Group Resubscribe_ should be deselected. They are essentially meaningless and therefore ignored. CiviCRM already counts an email as delivered as soon as the mail is sent, so _Delivered_ is also ignored. _Deferred_ is simply a temporary failure that will be reattempted; this extension does nothing more that record it to the main CiviCRM log, so you may wish to deselect this action as well.If a particular event type (like click-throughs) were not selected to be sent then the extension simply skips processing that event. This way if a Civi site owner wants to have CiviMail process certain events they can.

The extension allows the site admin to select if they would like SendGrid or CiviCRM to process _Open_ and _Click-through_ events, and if tracking should be made optional per mailing. The extension adds a Mail Spam Report template and includes spam reports on the Mail Summary and the Detailed Report for the mailing. The extension also supports authentication with a username and password.

To install add to your CiviCRM Extentions folder, enable, then go to Mailings > SendGrid Configuration to configure settings. The extension will display the HTTP Post URL to configure in your SendGrid Event Notifications App, as well as other server configuration instructions if needed.
